
Kevin Wright: 

I want to change the background color of code chunks in noweb buffers.


Erik Iverson:

I think ESS is very feature complete at this point.  The only thing
I've looked at that seems interesting is some sort of 'intellisense'
feature that uses R's built-in completion mechanism to temporarily
display available completions using something like company-mode,
autocomplete, or completion-ui.  I had at one point something that
almost worked, but I believe the library it was built in,
company-mode, has now changed significantly.

Another separate point is that the manual could be slightly updated to
keep up with current features.  For example, the main evaluation
command in R buffers, C-c C-c, is not documented.  A great feature for
showing R function arguments when the '(' key is pressed only shows up
in the Changelog, and is claimed to be on be default
(ess-r-args-electric-paren), when that no longer seems to be the case.
Simple features like this can draw users to ESS who might not know why
it is useful to them otherwise.


Josh Wiley:

This may be windows centric, but it would be minorly convenient if
options("width") in R was paired with the size of the window in Emacs.


Brendan Halpin:

Clearer documentation - what I know how to do I found out often by
trial and error, and the mailing list.


Bill Venables:

Better default customisation of iESS - nothing that can't be fixed
with a hook, though.


Felix Andrews:

ESS eval seems to be very slow: when I do C-c C-b it takes a very long
time and there is no visual indication that anything is happening (it
says "Starting evaluation...").  I know this can be avoided using
ess-eval-visibly-p but it would often be helpful to see the code
echoed as well.


Kjetil Halvorsen:

A good cheatsheet to print and put on the wall. 


Andreas Kiermeier:

When writing code using lattice (e.g. xyplot) and I have a panel
function, then C-c C-c when pressed inside the panel function only
submits the panel function rather than the whole plotting
expression. I would love if this could be extended (same goes for
apply functions and probably others) to cover the whole expression (or
even 'paragraph') rather than just the panel function.


Gray Calhoun:

I'd like to be able to direct graphical output to a buffer, have
graphics with multiple pages sent to multiple buffers, and have
multiple graphics open at a time.


Ista Zahn:

Function/variable completion in script files (maybe this already is
supposed to work, but for me completion only works in interactive
sessions).


Gerhard Schon:

For consulting, I need to use SPSS 18. It would be nice, to interact
with SPSS 18.


Derek Eder:

Easier configuration!  "font lock" and "visible execution" are 2
features which I always have trouble turning off (on multiple
machines) because I can never remember where they are in the
configuration menus.


Paul Hewson:

Object browser (e.g. open another frame listing variable names of a dataframe)


Deepayan Sarkar:

Not have R output be fontified as if it were R code.


David Carslaw:

The one feature I really miss is the showing of function arguments in
the R buffer.  I think I saw an explanation for why this is not made
available as "the source is real" paradigm.  However, showing the
function options in the R buffer in my view would be very useful and
not take anything away from the "source is real" approach.  The simple
reason is it is difficult to remember what the options are!  It's very
useful when writing the scripts - where it is available.  RKward does
this too and it's useful.


Gerald Jean:

Having function arguments show up in the mini-buffer UNTIL the
closing parenthesis is typed.  By the way, in R it shows up briefly,
but not at all in Splus; would be great to have it for all "S"
variants.


Charles Berry:

Handle \Sexpr{}'s in Sweave code.

How 'about

     ess-eval-sexpr

     Tangle the current contents of \Sexpr{ } and send it to the
     inferior ESS process.


     ess-eval-sexprs-in-region

     Tangle the contents of \Sexpr{ }'s in region and send them to the
     inferior ESS process. (Maybe even open a *Sexpr* buffer (say) and
     place the region contents in that buffer with the \Sexpr{}'s
     replaced by their printed results.)

More than a few times, I have had Sweave terminate with an error or
deliver unreadable results because of a silly error in an \Sexpr.


Sven Hartenstein:

I am sometimes annoyed by emacs "popup" windows, e.g. after expanding
some string or when a R help buffer was opened. My request would be a
simple key binding that - whatever the current window layout and
active buffers are - gives me my two pane view with the latest *.R
file as the active buffer in the upper 3/4 of the frame and the R
process the other 1/4 of the frame.
